IMPLEMENTATION_STATUS.md, before:

# Nexus Platform Implementation Status

**Generated:** September 3, 2025  
**Status:** Phase 2 In Progress – Identity Service Auth & RBAC Implemented; QuickBooks connector dev/run progress

## 🎯 Implementation Progress

### ✅ Phase 1: Foundation Setup (COMPLETED)

#### Project Structure
- ✅ Root project configuration (`package.json`, `docker-compose.yml`)
- ✅ Microservices folder structure
- ✅ Shared libraries structure
- ✅ Infrastructure configuration
- ✅ Development scripts and automation

#### Infrastructure Setup
- ✅ Docker Compose configuration for local development
- ✅ PostgreSQL database setup with separate schemas per service
- ✅ Redis caching configuration
- ✅ RabbitMQ message broker setup
- ✅ Kong API Gateway configuration
- ✅ Environment configuration templates

#### DevOps & Tooling
- ✅ Development setup script (`scripts/setup.js`)
- ✅ Database initialization script
- ✅ NPM workspace configuration
- ✅ TypeScript configuration
- ✅ Docker multi-service setup

### 🚧 Phase 2: Core Services Development (IN PROGRESS)

#### Identity Service (✅ 100% Complete)
- ✅ Service structure and configuration
- ✅ TypeScript setup and types definition
- ✅ Database service abstraction
- ✅ Redis service integration
- ✅ Message broker service
- ✅ Database migration for identity tables
- ✅ Basic HTTP routes (auth, users, roles, health)
- ✅ Error handling middleware
- ✅ Request logging middleware
- ✅ Authentication logic implementation
- ✅ JWT token generation and validation
- ✅ Password hashing and validation
- ✅ Role-based access control (roles + granular permissions)
- ✅ Centralized PermissionService (role & permission aggregation)
- ✅ Granular permission seeding (identity:*:users, identity:manage:roles)
- ✅ Permission-based route guards (users & roles endpoints)
- ✅ Permission caching (Redis layer with TTL + invalidation)
- ✅ JWT permission refresh endpoint with cache invalidation
- ✅ Jest/Supertest test suite for permissions and cache invalidation
- ✅ Role assignment/removal endpoints with permission checks
- ✅ OpenAPI documentation with Swagger UI
- ✅ Single-service dev mode (isolated from monorepo)

#### Tenant Service (30% Complete)
- ✅ Service structure and configuration
- ✅ Package.json and Docker setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Database models and migrations
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** HTTP routes implementation
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Multi-tenant logic
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Subscription management

#### Payroll Service (10% Complete)
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Service structure setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Database models for HR data
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Payroll calculation logic
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Sri Lankan compliance features

#### API Gateway (80% Complete)
- ✅ Kong configuration with service routing
- ✅ CORS and rate limiting policies
- ✅ Request logging configuration
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** JWT authentication plugin
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Authorization policies

### ⏸️ Phase 3: Frontend Application (NOT STARTED)

### 🔗 Integrations / Connectors (NEW)

- ✅ QuickBooks connector scaffolded (OAuth start/callback, sync routes, mapping helpers)
- ✅ Database persistence implemented for connector (Knex-based repos, migrations and raw init scripts)
- ✅ Admin API + tiny static admin UI implemented for tenant mappings (list / create / delete)
- ✅ Server-to-server auth flow for service sessions added (Identity `/auth/service-token` and connector `/api/admin/session`) — admin UI uses httpOnly session cookie
- ✅ Rate-limiting, request auditing (DB + repo), and request logging added to admin endpoints
- ✅ Dev Docker Compose and a minimal compose variant created; iterative fixes applied (Dockerfile npm install changes, host port remap, ts-node/CJS adjustments)
- ✅ Connector health endpoint verified (GET /health -> { status: 'ok' })
- ✅ Commits pushed to repository (changes for connector, DB, and runtime fixes)
- ⚠️ In progress / partial: migrations — `knex migrate` attempted against the compose Postgres; some migration files report as pending while migration attempts indicate existing tables (duplicate/replayed migrations or pre-existing schema). Migration reconciliation required (see "Recent verification" below).
- ⚠️ In progress: runtime/start stability across developer environments (TS/ESM vs CJS): a working dev flow (ts-node) is in place in containers, but a single unified local start command for all developer OSes is still pending.
- ⚠️ Pending: token refresh worker, encrypted token storage, hardened production session flow for admin UI, and a polished one-command dev bootstrap that is robust across Windows host bind-mount behavior.

Recent verification
- Connector process is running and responds on /health (tested locally against the minimal compose).
- `knex migrate:latest` was run against the compose Postgres with explicit DB env — migration attempt failed reporting that core tables (e.g., `qbo_tokens`) already exist while `knex_migrations` shows migrations as pending. This indicates the schema already contains the tables (possibly from a previous manual init or partial run) but the migrations table wasn't marked. Next action: reconcile migrations by either migrating against a fresh DB, creating the `knex_migrations` entries for already-applied files, or writing idempotent migrations.

Next steps (short list)
1. Reconcile and apply connector migrations cleanly:
   - Option A: point migrations at a fresh Postgres DB and run `knex migrate:latest` to establish baseline.
   - Option B: insert rows into `knex_migrations` for already-applied migration files, then run remaining migrations.
2. Validate admin flows end-to-end: call `/api/admin/session`, then list/create/delete mappings and verify audit rows in DB.
3. Stabilize dev start for Windows developers: provide a dev-compose variant or documented workaround that preserves image node_modules or uses remote file sync (avoid host-mounted node_modules).
4. Reintroduce or adapt API Gateway (Kong) in dev compose only after images/tags are validated for the environment.



#### Frontend Framework Setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** React + Vite + TypeScript setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Component library structure
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Routing configuration
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** State management setup

### ⏸️ Phase 4: PayDay Pro Module (NOT STARTED)

### ⏸️ Phase 5: Integration & Testing (NOT STARTED)

### ⏸️ Phase 6: Deployment & Launch (NOT STARTED)

## 🚀 Quick Start Guide

### Prerequisites
1. **Node.js 18+** - [Download here](https://nodejs.org/)
2. **Docker Desktop** - [Download here](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
3. **Git** - [Download here](https://git-scm.com/)

### Getting Started

1. **Initial Setup:**
   ```bash
   npm run setup
   ```

2. **Start Development Environment:**
   ```bash
   # Start infrastructure services
   npm run docker:up
   
   # Start development servers
   npm run dev
   ```

3. **Access Services:**
   - Identity Service: http://localhost:3001/health
   - Tenant Service: http://localhost:3002/health
   - API Gateway: http://localhost:8080
   - Database: postgresql://nexus:nexus_dev_password@localhost:5432/
   - Redis: redis://localhost:6379
   - RabbitMQ: http://localhost:15672 (nexus/nexus_dev_password)

### Available Commands

```bash
# Development
npm run setup          # Complete initial setup
npm run dev           # Start all services in development
npm run dev:identity  # Start identity service only
npm run dev:tenant    # Start tenant service only

# Docker
npm run docker:up     # Start all Docker services
npm run docker:down   # Stop all Docker services  
npm run docker:logs   # View Docker service logs
npm run docker:build  # Build all Docker images

# Database
npm run setup:db      # Initialize databases

# Quality & Testing
npm run build         # Build all services
npm run test          # Run all tests
npm run lint          # Lint all code
```

### One-command dev bootstrap (QuickBooks connector)

To start a minimal development environment that brings up Postgres, initializes the QuickBooks connector database, and tails logs, run:

```powershell
npm run dev:bootstrap
```

This uses `docker-compose.dev.yml` (root) and the connector init script at `services/quickbooks-connector/scripts/init_db.mjs`.

## 🔧 Next Implementation Steps

### Immediate (Week 3)
1. **Complete Identity Service Authentication:**
   - Implement JWT token generation/validation
   - Add password hashing with bcrypt
   - Complete user registration and login logic
   - Add role-based permission checking

2. **Complete Tenant Service:**
   - Create database migrations
   - Implement tenant management API
   - Add subscription management
   - Integrate with identity service

### Short Term (Week 4-5)
1. **Start Frontend Development:**
   - Setup React + Vite application
   - Create authentication flow
   - Build navigation shell
   - Implement design system basics

2. **Enhanced API Gateway:**
   - Configure JWT authentication plugin
   - Add service-specific authorization
   - Implement request/response transformation

### Medium Term (Week 6-8)
1. **Payroll Service Implementation:**
   - Create employee management system
   - Implement payroll calculation engine
   - Add Sri Lankan compliance features (EPF, ETF, PAYE)

2. **Service Integration:**
   - Event-driven communication between services
   - End-to-end user workflows
   - Cross-service data consistency

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

```
Frontend (React)
       ↓
API Gateway (Kong) ← Load Balancer
       ↓
┌─────────────┬─────────────┬─────────────┐
│   Identity  │   Tenant    │   Payroll   │
│   Service   │   Service   │   Service   │
│   :3001     │   :3002     │   :3003     │
└─────────────┴─────────────┴─────────────┘
       ↓              ↓             ↓
┌─────────────┬─────────────┬─────────────┐
│ PostgreSQL  │ PostgreSQL  │ PostgreSQL  │
│ (Identity)  │ (Tenant)    │ (Payroll)   │
└─────────────┴─────────────┴─────────────┘

Shared Infrastructure:
├── Redis (Caching & Sessions)
├── RabbitMQ (Message Broker)  
└── Kong (API Gateway)
```

## 📊 Current Metrics

- **Services Configured:** 3/3 (Identity, Tenant, Payroll)
- **Database Schemas:** 1/3 (Identity complete)
- **API Routes:** Basic structure (20+ endpoints defined)
- **Docker Services:** 6/6 (PostgreSQL, Redis, RabbitMQ, Kong, Services)
- **Development Tools:** Fully configured
- **Code Quality:** TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier configured

## 🚨 Known Issues & Dependencies

1. **Docker Desktop Required:** Services depend on Docker for local development
2. **Database Migrations:** Need to run migrations after Docker setup
3. **Service Dependencies:** Identity service must start before others
4. **Environment Files:** Each service needs .env configuration

## 📚 Documentation

- [Product Requirements](./doc/Nexus%20PRD.md)
- [Technical Design](./doc/Nexus%20TDD.md) 
- [Architecture Design](./doc/Nexus%20ADD.md)
- [API Documentation](./doc/Nexus%20API.md)
- [Implementation Plan](./IMPLEMENTATION_STATUS.md) (This file)

---

**Next Update:** Week 3 Progress Review  
**Target:** Complete Identity Service authentication and start Frontend development

Commit message:

chore(tenant): add migrations compose job, README, Jest teardown, tenant context and repo migrate scripts

IMPLEMENTATION_STATUS.md, after:

# Nexus Platform Implementation Status

**Generated:** September 3, 2025  
**Status:** Phase 2 In Progress – Identity Service Auth & RBAC Implemented; QuickBooks connector dev/run progress

## 🎯 Implementation Progress

### ✅ Phase 1: Foundation Setup (COMPLETED)

#### Project Structure
- ✅ Root project configuration (`package.json`, `docker-compose.yml`)
- ✅ Microservices folder structure
- ✅ Shared libraries structure
- ✅ Infrastructure configuration
- ✅ Development scripts and automation

#### Infrastructure Setup
- ✅ Docker Compose configuration for local development
- ✅ PostgreSQL database setup with separate schemas per service
- ✅ Redis caching configuration
- ✅ RabbitMQ message broker setup
- ✅ Kong API Gateway configuration
- ✅ Environment configuration templates

#### DevOps & Tooling
- ✅ Development setup script (`scripts/setup.js`)
- ✅ Database initialization script
- ✅ NPM workspace configuration
- ✅ TypeScript configuration
- ✅ Docker multi-service setup

### 🚧 Phase 2: Core Services Development (IN PROGRESS)

#### Identity Service (✅ 100% Complete)
- ✅ Service structure and configuration
- ✅ TypeScript setup and types definition
- ✅ Database service abstraction
- ✅ Redis service integration
- ✅ Message broker service
- ✅ Database migration for identity tables
- ✅ Basic HTTP routes (auth, users, roles, health)
- ✅ Error handling middleware
- ✅ Request logging middleware
- ✅ Authentication logic implementation
- ✅ JWT token generation and validation
- ✅ Password hashing and validation
- ✅ Role-based access control (roles + granular permissions)
- ✅ Centralized PermissionService (role & permission aggregation)
- ✅ Granular permission seeding (identity:*:users, identity:manage:roles)
- ✅ Permission-based route guards (users & roles endpoints)
- ✅ Permission caching (Redis layer with TTL + invalidation)
- ✅ JWT permission refresh endpoint with cache invalidation
- ✅ Jest/Supertest test suite for permissions and cache invalidation
- ✅ Role assignment/removal endpoints with permission checks
- ✅ OpenAPI documentation with Swagger UI
- ✅ Single-service dev mode (isolated from monorepo)

#### Tenant Service (60% Complete)
- ✅ Service structure and configuration
- ✅ Package.json and Docker setup
- ✅ Database models and migrations (Knex migration added)
- ✅ HTTP routes and controllers (tenant CRUD, users, subscription endpoints)
- ✅ Unit tests (Jest/Supertest) for basic routes
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Multi-tenant enforcement and identity-integrated RBAC (tenant-specific permission checks)
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Billing & subscription automation (billing provider integration, webhooks)

#### Payroll Service (10% Complete)
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Service structure setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Database models for HR data
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Payroll calculation logic
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Sri Lankan compliance features

#### API Gateway (80% Complete)
- ✅ Kong configuration with service routing
- ✅ CORS and rate limiting policies
- ✅ Request logging configuration
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** JWT authentication plugin
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Authorization policies

### ⏸️ Phase 3: Frontend Application (NOT STARTED)

### 🔗 Integrations / Connectors (NEW)

- ✅ QuickBooks connector scaffolded (OAuth start/callback, sync routes, mapping helpers)
- ✅ Database persistence implemented for connector (Knex-based repos, migrations and raw init scripts)
- ✅ Admin API + tiny static admin UI implemented for tenant mappings (list / create / delete)
- ✅ Server-to-server auth flow for service sessions added (Identity `/auth/service-token` and connector `/api/admin/session`) — admin UI uses httpOnly session cookie
- ✅ Rate-limiting, request auditing (DB + repo), and request logging added to admin endpoints
- ✅ Dev Docker Compose and a minimal compose variant created; iterative fixes applied (Dockerfile npm install changes, host port remap, ts-node/CJS adjustments)
- ✅ Connector health endpoint verified (GET /health -> { status: 'ok' })
- ✅ Commits pushed to repository (changes for connector, DB, and runtime fixes)
- ⚠️ In progress / partial: migrations — `knex migrate` attempted against the compose Postgres; some migration files report as pending while migration attempts indicate existing tables (duplicate/replayed migrations or pre-existing schema). Migration reconciliation required (see "Recent verification" below).
- ⚠️ In progress: runtime/start stability across developer environments (TS/ESM vs CJS): a working dev flow (ts-node) is in place in containers, but a single unified local start command for all developer OSes is still pending.
- ⚠️ Pending: token refresh worker, encrypted token storage, hardened production session flow for admin UI, and a polished one-command dev bootstrap that is robust across Windows host bind-mount behavior.

Recent verification
- Connector process is running and responds on /health (tested locally against the minimal compose).
- `knex migrate:latest` was run against the compose Postgres with explicit DB env — migration attempt failed reporting that core tables (e.g., `qbo_tokens`) already exist while `knex_migrations` shows migrations as pending. This indicates the schema already contains the tables (possibly from a previous manual init or partial run) but the migrations table wasn't marked.

Recent actions and decisions
- Option chosen for verification: Option A — point the connector at the Postgres instance that already contains the QBO schema (host:5432 / `nexus-postgres-test`) so the service can run and admin flows can be exercised immediately. This avoids copying `knex_migrations` rows and allows fast end-to-end verification. Migration hygiene (Option B) remains listed as a follow-up for a clean long-term fix.
- Identity DB created: the `nexus_identity` database was created in the compose Postgres and the Identity service was restarted so it could initialize successfully.
- Admin session update: connector `POST /api/admin/session` was updated to perform the server-to-server service-token exchange and set an httpOnly `connector_token` cookie so the static admin UI can authenticate without paste flows.
- Connector health: connector `/health` returns `{ "status": "ok", "service": "quickbooks-connector" }` in the minimal compose verification.
- Git: recent changes were committed and pushed (commit c2c010e) including the compose adjustments, admin session change, identity docs resilience, and status updates.
- Tenant service: added Knex migration files, a `tenant-migrate` one-shot in `docker-compose.dev.min.yml`, and a `README.md` with migration/run instructions.
- Repo scripts: added root npm scripts for tenant migrations (`migrate:tenant`, `migrate:tenant:infra`, `migrate:tenant:up`) and a composite `setup:migrate` that runs identity migrations then tenant migrations.
- Tests: added Jest global teardown (`tests/teardown.ts`) and test start guard to ensure tests exit cleanly; unit tests for tenant routes pass locally.
- Admin session update: connector `POST /api/admin/session` was updated to perform the server-to-server service-token exchange and set an httpOnly `connector_token` cookie so the static admin UI can authenticate without paste flows.
- Connector health: connector `/health` returns `{ "status": "ok", "service": "quickbooks-connector" }` in the minimal compose verification.
- Git: recent changes were committed and pushed (commit c2c010e) including the compose adjustments, admin session change, identity docs resilience, and status updates.

Next steps (short list)
1. Reconcile and apply connector migrations cleanly:
   - Short-term (current): Option A was used for verification — the connector points at the DB that already contains the schema so admin flows can be exercised.
   - Long-term (follow-up): Option B or a migration-hygiene task — either insert correct `knex_migrations` rows for already-applied files, run migrations against a fresh DB, or convert migrations to idempotent scripts so deployments remain repeatable.
2. Validate admin flows end-to-end now: obtain a service token from Identity, POST `/api/admin/session` to set the httpOnly cookie, then exercise GET/POST/DELETE on `/api/admin/mappings` and confirm `audit_logs` rows in the connector DB.
3. Tenant migrations: use the new compose one-shot or repo script to run tenant migrations:
   - `npm run migrate:tenant` (runs the `tenant-migrate` job in `docker-compose.dev.min.yml`)
   - `npm run setup:migrate` (runs identity migrations then tenant migrations) — a one-command flow for infra + migrations.
4. Stabilize dev start for Windows developers: provide a dev-compose variant or documented workaround that preserves image node_modules or uses remote file sync (avoid host-mounted node_modules).
5. Reintroduce or adapt API Gateway (Kong) in dev compose only after images/tags are validated for the environment.
3. Stabilize dev start for Windows developers: provide a dev-compose variant or documented workaround that preserves image node_modules or uses remote file sync (avoid host-mounted node_modules).
4. Reintroduce or adapt API Gateway (Kong) in dev compose only after images/tags are validated for the environment.



#### Frontend Framework Setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** React + Vite + TypeScript setup
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Component library structure
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** Routing configuration
- ⚠️ **PENDING:** State management setup

### ⏸️ Phase 4: PayDay Pro Module (NOT STARTED)

### ⏸️ Phase 5: Integration & Testing (NOT STARTED)

### ⏸️ Phase 6: Deployment & Launch (NOT STARTED)

## 🚀 Quick Start Guide

### Prerequisites
1. **Node.js 18+** - [Download here](https://nodejs.org/)
2. **Docker Desktop** - [Download here](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
3. **Git** - [Download here](https://git-scm.com/)

### Getting Started

1. **Initial Setup:**
   ```bash
   npm run setup
   ```

2. **Start Development Environment:**
   ```bash
   # Start infrastructure services
   npm run docker:up
   
   # Start development servers
   npm run dev
   ```

3. **Access Services:**
   - Identity Service: http://localhost:3001/health
   - Tenant Service: http://localhost:3002/health
   - API Gateway: http://localhost:8080
   - Database: postgresql://nexus:nexus_dev_password@localhost:5432/
   - Redis: redis://localhost:6379
   - RabbitMQ: http://localhost:15672 (nexus/nexus_dev_password)

### Available Commands

```bash
# Development
npm run setup          # Complete initial setup
npm run dev           # Start all services in development
npm run dev:identity  # Start identity service only
npm run dev:tenant    # Start tenant service only

# Docker
npm run docker:up     # Start all Docker services
npm run docker:down   # Stop all Docker services  
npm run docker:logs   # View Docker service logs
npm run docker:build  # Build all Docker images

# Database
npm run setup:db      # Initialize databases

# Quality & Testing
npm run build         # Build all services
npm run test          # Run all tests
npm run lint          # Lint all code
```

### One-command dev bootstrap (QuickBooks connector)

To start a minimal development environment that brings up Postgres, initializes the QuickBooks connector database, and tails logs, run:

```powershell
npm run dev:bootstrap
```

This uses `docker-compose.dev.yml` (root) and the connector init script at `services/quickbooks-connector/scripts/init_db.mjs`.

## 🔧 Next Implementation Steps

### Immediate (Week 3)
1. **Complete Identity Service Authentication:**
   - Implement JWT token generation/validation
   - Add password hashing with bcrypt
   - Complete user registration and login logic
   - Add role-based permission checking

2. **Complete Tenant Service:**
   - Create database migrations
   - Implement tenant management API
   - Add subscription management
   - Integrate with identity service

### Short Term (Week 4-5)
1. **Start Frontend Development:**
   - Setup React + Vite application
   - Create authentication flow
   - Build navigation shell
   - Implement design system basics

2. **Enhanced API Gateway:**
   - Configure JWT authentication plugin
   - Add service-specific authorization
   - Implement request/response transformation

### Medium Term (Week 6-8)
1. **Payroll Service Implementation:**
   - Create employee management system
   - Implement payroll calculation engine
   - Add Sri Lankan compliance features (EPF, ETF, PAYE)

2. **Service Integration:**
   - Event-driven communication between services
   - End-to-end user workflows
   - Cross-service data consistency

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

```
Frontend (React)
       ↓
API Gateway (Kong) ← Load Balancer
       ↓
┌─────────────┬─────────────┬─────────────┐
│   Identity  │   Tenant    │   Payroll   │
│   Service   │   Service   │   Service   │
│   :3001     │   :3002     │   :3003     │
└─────────────┴─────────────┴─────────────┘
       ↓              ↓             ↓
┌─────────────┬─────────────┬─────────────┐
│ PostgreSQL  │ PostgreSQL  │ PostgreSQL  │
│ (Identity)  │ (Tenant)    │ (Payroll)   │
└─────────────┴─────────────┴─────────────┘

Shared Infrastructure:
├── Redis (Caching & Sessions)
├── RabbitMQ (Message Broker)  
└── Kong (API Gateway)
```

## 📊 Current Metrics

- **Services Configured:** 3/3 (Identity, Tenant, Payroll)
- **Database Schemas:** 1/3 (Identity complete)
- **API Routes:** Basic structure (20+ endpoints defined)
- **Docker Services:** 6/6 (PostgreSQL, Redis, RabbitMQ, Kong, Services)
- **Development Tools:** Fully configured
- **Code Quality:** TypeScript, ESLint, Prettier configured

## 🚨 Known Issues & Dependencies

1. **Docker Desktop Required:** Services depend on Docker for local development
2. **Database Migrations:** Need to run migrations after Docker setup
3. **Service Dependencies:** Identity service must start before others
4. **Environment Files:** Each service needs .env configuration

## 📚 Documentation

- [Product Requirements](./doc/Nexus%20PRD.md)
- [Technical Design](./doc/Nexus%20TDD.md) 
- [Architecture Design](./doc/Nexus%20ADD.md)
- [API Documentation](./doc/Nexus%20API.md)
- [Implementation Plan](./IMPLEMENTATION_STATUS.md) (This file)

---

**Next Update:** Week 3 Progress Review  
**Target:** Complete Identity Service authentication and start Frontend development
